  
 
 
 Crazy Hair 202 5 Futsal Tournament 
 
 
 Rules and Regulations 
 
 
 Field of Play 
 
 
 1. The size of the playing court is 94' x 50' 
 
 
 2. There are no boards. 
 
 
 3. Out of bounds rules are enforced, however, kick-ins are utilized instead of throw-ins. 
 
 
 4. Black boundary line is the out of bounds line. 
 
 
 5. The goal box is defined as the basketball three-point arc. 
 
 
 Duration of Game 
 
 
 The duration of games is a single period of 40’ ' with a running clock (no time stoppages). 
 
 
 The Ball 
 
 
 A Futsal ball is weighted and a heavier low bounce soccer ball. 
 
 
 A regulation Futsal ball (size 4) will be provided by the tournament and used . 
 
 
 Heading is not allowed below U13 (201 3 ) and not recommended at all age groups. 
 
 
 Number of Players 
 
 
 Each team on the court consists of 4 field players and 1 goalkeeper. 
 
 
 Team Rosters / Player Registration Forms 
 
 
 1. There is no maximum team roster size. 
 
 
 2. Players may play on multiple teams with tournament staff approval. 
 
 
 3. Team coaches and managers will ensure that each player has an appropriately completed medical waiver and liability release on file either with their club or physically on site during the tournament. 
 
 
 4. Team coaches and managers will ensure that, if necessary, all participants have proof of age available. Acceptable proof of age is: 
 
 
 -Current player cards or team roster with birth dates 
 
 
 -Copy of birth certificate 
 
 
 -Passport 
 
 
 Substitutions 
 
 
 1. Substitution Method: "Flying Substitution". 
 
 
 2. All players enter and leave the court from midfield. 
 
 
 3. The player entering the court may only do so once the substituted player has completely exited the court. 
 
 
 4. Unlimited substitutions. 
 
 
 Players Equipment 
 
 
 1. A player's footwear must conform to the following: Flat soled shoes or other footwear designed for gymnasium floor use. No “marking” shoes or cleats will be permitted. 
 
 
 2. Shin guards are mandatory. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tournament Scoring 
 
 
 A maximum of three (3) points will be awarded for each game. Three (3) points shall be awarded for a win, one (1) point for a tie, and zero (0) points for a loss. Game Report: the match official will give the tournament director a completed match game report including the name of both teams, score, and any misconduct reports, at the conclusion of each match. 
 
 
 Championship Determination 
 
 
 Championship matchups will be decided based on the teams with the most points or the team in first and second place in each bracket. If teams are tied for first place in their group, then the tiebreaker rules below will be applied to determine the Champion. If the Championship game is tied at the end of regulation time, the teams will immediately progress to best of 5 penalty kicks. If the result of penalty kicks is tied after 5, teams will alternate in a sudden death manner. Each player on the team must take a penalty kick before any player is allowed to repeat. 
 
 
 Score Averaging 
 
 
 In groups with uneven numbers of team, score averaging will be used to determine team placement. Tiebreaker rules below will be applied to determine the group standings in the case of a tie. 1. Head-to-head competition 
 
 
 2. Highest goal differential of all games – limit of 3 per game 
 
 
 3. Most goals for, all games – limit of 7 per game 
 
 
 4. Fewest goals against, all games – limit of 7 counted per 
 
 
 game 
 
 
 5. Most shutouts 
 
 
 6. Coin Flip 
 
 
 
 
 
 Referees 
 
 
 1. A one-person system will be utilized. 
 
 
 2. The referee will enforce the rules of the game as stated by FIFA. 
 
 
 Duties: Enforce the laws, apply the advantage rule, keep a record of all incidents before, during and after game, stop game when deemed necessary, caution or expel players guilty of misconduct, violent conduct or other unacceptable behavior, allow no others to enter the court, stop game to have injured players removed, signal for game to be restarted after every stoppage, decide that the ball meets with the stipulated requirements. 
 
 
 Issuance of Red / Yellow Cards 
 
 
 Red Card: 
 
 
 If a player receives a red card, he/she will have to sit out the remainder of that match as well as his/her team’s following match and the team will receive a 2 Minute penalty. The team being assessed the 2 minute penalty will play a person short until the 2 minutes expire or a goal is scored by the opposing team. Players shall be sent off (i.e., shown the red card) for: 
 
 
 (a) Serious foul play 
 
 
 (b) Violent conduct 
 
 
 (c) Foul or abusive language 
 
 
 (d) Second instance of cautionable offense (i.e., second yellow card) 
 
 
 (e) Intentionally impeding a clear goal opportunity (e.g. through a "professional foul") (f) Intentionally impeding a clear goal opportunity in the penalty area by handling the ball Direct free kicks (or penalty kicks) accompany the expulsion for (a), (b), (e) and (f); indirect free kicks, for (c) and (d) (from the top of the basketball three-point arc when the infringement takes place in the goal box). 
 
 
 
 
 
 Yellow Cards: 
 
 
 Players shall be cautioned (i.e., shown yellow card) when: 
 
 
 - a substituting player enters the pitch from an incorrect position or before the player he/she is substituting has entirely left the pitch. 
 
 
 - he/she persistently infringes the Laws of the Game. 
 
 
 - he/she shows dissent with any decision of the referee. 
 
 
 - he/she is guilty of ungentlemanly conduct 
 
 
 These 4 yellow-card offenses are punishable by an indirect free kick taken from the point of infringement. 
 
 
 Yellow Card Accumulation 
 
 
 If a player receives an accumulated three yellow cards during the round robin play of competition, he/she will NOT be permitted to play in their team’s next match. 
 
 
 Fouls and Misconduct 
 
 
 1. Slide tackles will NOT be permitted. However, sliding on the ball to prevent it from going out of bounds is permitted as long as it does not interfere with an opposing player. This will be judged at the referee’s discretion. 
 
 
 2. A Direct Free Kick shall be awarded when a player intentionally commits any of the following 10 offenses (penalty kick awarded when infringement takes place in penalty area): 
 
 
 - kicking or attempting to kick an opponent 
 
 
 - tripping an opponent 
 
 
 - charging an opponent in a violent or dangerous manner 
 
 
 - charging an opponent from behind 
 
 
 - Striking, attempting to strike, or spitting at an opponent 
 
 
 - Holding an opponent 
 
 
 - Pushing an opponent 
 
 
 - Charging an opponent with shoulder (i.e., shoulder charge) 
 
 
 - Sliding at an opponent (i.e.,sliding tackle) 
 
 
 - Handling the ball 
 
 
 3. An Indirect Free Kick shall be awarded when any of the following offenses is committed: - Dangerous play 
 
 
 - Obstruction 
 
 
 - Charging 
 
 
 - If a goal is scored prior to the ball crossing midfield, an indirect kick will occur at the end line. - The opposing players must give 6 feet between them and the ball on all restarts. 
 
 
 Scoring: 
 
 
 1. A goal is scored when the entire ball crosses the goal line. 
 
 
 2. A goal may NOT be scored until the offensive team has progressed the ball across the midfield line. 
 
 
 Kick Offs 
 
 
 A kickoff is an Indirect Free Kick. A goal may NOT be scored directly from a kickoff. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kick-Ins/Restarts 
 
 
 1. Kick-Ins will take place when the ball crosses entirely over the touchlines (Black Line). 
 
 
 2. A goal may NOT be scored directly from a kick-in. It is an Indirect Kick. 
 
 
 3. A kick-in must be taken within 6 seconds; if it is not, the kick-in will be given to the opposing team. 
 
 
 4. The opposing players must give 6 feet between them and the ball on all restarts. 
 
 
 Goal Clearance (Goal “Kick”) 
 
 
 1. The whole of the ball, having last touched a player of the attacking team, passes over the goal line. 
 
 
 2. The defending team’s goalkeeper must play the ball in from their hands from inside the goal box. 
 
 
 3. The goalkeeper may drop the ball to their feet and dribble or pass the ball into play, but the ball is live once it touches the floor. 
 
 
 4. The goalkeeper may kick the ball to a teammate on the offensive half of the court however the ball must be settled on the floor before contact. IE there can be no “air” under the ball when struck and the goalkeeper may not punt, dropkick, or bounce the ball prior to contact. 
 
 
 5. The ball, thrown from the goalkeeper, must first touch the defending team’s side of the half line before it can progress to the attacking half of the court. 
 
 
 6. Opponents must remain outside the goal box until the ball is in play. 
 
 
 Corner Kick 
 
 
 1. Ball placed at the nearest corner where the ball crossed the goal line. If ball is misplaced, the corner kick is taken over. 
 
 
 2. Must be taken within 6 seconds; failure to do so results in an indirect free kick to the opposing team from the corner mark. 
 
 
 3. The kicker cannot play the ball a second time until it has been played by another player; infringement of this rule results in an indirect free kick to the opposing team from the point of infringement. 
 
 
 4. Players on opposing team must be at least 6 feet from point of the corner kick. 
 
 
 5. You may NOT score a goal directly from a corner kick. 
 
 
 Stoppage of Play 
 
 
 Failure by a team to put the ball into play within six seconds, as signaled by the referee, shall result in a possession turnover to the opponent. 
 
 
 Penalty Kick 
 
 
 1. A penalty kick is taken from the top of the basketball three-point arc. 
 
 
 2. No players will be permitted to stand in the way of the shooter and the ball. 
 
 
 3. All players MUST stand behind midfield and will not be permitted to cross until the ball is struck. 
 
 
 Protests 
 
 
 Protests will not be permitted or accepted as this is a friendly event. 
 Awards 
 A team trophy will be provided to the first place team in each group. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 