 
 
 202 5 Sasquatch 5 A Side Tournament 
 Information and Rules 
 
 
 1. Dates and Registration Fees 
 SASQUATCH 5 A SIDE 
 June 1st 
 202 5 
 , 8am-8pm Location: Spokane Falls Community College Age groups: U 6 - Adult (20 20 - Adult ) 
 -Coed and Masters 
 teams 
 welcome! All levels of play welcome! 3-Game Guarantee 
 
 REFUND POLICY: 
 
 If the event or games are cancelled due to field playability, weather, or other extenuating circumstances, teams will be provided a refund proportional to the amount of games unable to be completed within the 
 3 game 
 guarantee minus a $ 50 administrative fee . If the only games required to be cancelled are the championship rounds and teams have completed 3 games, no refund will be issued. Cancellations decisions will be the authority of the tournament director and venue staff based on US Soccer Federation guidelines. 
 2. General Information This tournament is open to all teams from US Club Soccer, Washington Youth Soccer, other USSF affiliated members and foreign countries. Placement in division level will be determined by the t ournament d irector and/or t ournament s cheduler. Every attempt to balance competition will be made with input from team representatives when possible. 
 The tournament director, c oordinator and committee or any representative of The Sasquatch 5 A Side Tournament will not be liable for any expenses incurred by individual teams in the event the tournament is canceled in part or whole. 
 The Sasquatch 5 A Side t ournament d irector or a ssistant d irector reserves the right to terminate, suspend or forfeit any match for misconduct of coaches, players and spectators. The offending team will be removed from the facility and s uspended from all remaining games. 
 Sale of any merchandise and on-site posting of non- Sasquatch 5 A Side related information/advertisement are strictly prohibited. No pets are allowed at Spokane Falls Community College . Service animals must be cleared at the tournament headquarters. 
 3. Team Check in Deadline SASQUATCH 5 A SIDE Each team must check in at tournament headquarters at least 60’ prior to their first scheduled game with a n approved tournament roster or official roster . Team mangers may submit a letter certifying that their adult, recreational , and Junior players not carded through their state association are insured through a club or provide medical releases . Teams must have approved rosters and a form of age verification available at each game if requested. Players may be dual rostered to multiple teams with tournament director approval. 
 4. Roster Sizes 
 Teams are permitted to roster 10 players. 
 Deviation to maximum roster may be approved by the tournament director. 
 No roster changes will be permitted after a team roster has been approved at the tournament check-in . 
 5. Planned Divisions 
 Male, female, and coed 
 U5-U19 (200 7 -20 20 ) 
 
 Adult 
 (200 6 and older) 
 Masters (Over 35 years of age on day of event) 
 
 6 . Illegal players 
 Any player that does not appear on the tournament roster shall be considered an illegal player. 
 Any team using an illegal player(s) shall forfeit each match the illegal player(s) were used. 
 7 . Laws of the Game All Games are to be played in accordance with FIFA & USSF Rules, except when specifically modified and communicated by the tournament director. 
 There is no build out line for any age group. No Heading will be allowed for U5-U1 2. 
 Punting/drop-kicks are not permitted. 
 The ball must be settled on the ground before being struck by the keeper. 
 A goal may not be scored until the ball has advanced into the offensive half of the field. 
 8 . Protests All protests and appeals may be filed with the Tournament Director or Assistant Tournament Director. Any matter not resolved by the referee will be decided by the tournament director. The decision is deemed final. 9 . Duration of the game 
 All games will be a 35 ’ single period running clock. There will not be any stoppage of time. The tournament director may at his discretion adjust playing time. The referee is the official timekeeper. 
 The games will start and end at the published times on the schedule. Games may be shortened or cancelled due to weather. The tournament director has sole discretion to make final decision. In excessive heat additional water breaks will be provided by the referee at his discretion. 
 11 . Scoring Method Win 6 points Tie 3 points 
 Loss 
 0 points 
 Shutout 
 1 point 
 Goals 1 point for each goal up to 3 
 maximum 
 Maximum of 10 points per game will be awarded per game. 
 
 After the preliminary rounds brackets for playoffs will be published. In the event of a tie within the same bracket the following rules will be used to determine the winner: 
 
 
 Head to head 
 competition 
 Least number of red cards received in all tournament games combined 
 Goal differential between all goals scored and all goals allowed during all tournament games. Team with the highest score differential will be declared the winner and move on to the playoffs. 
 Least number of goals allowed in all tournament games combined 
 If the above has been exhausted and a tie remains, the two teams will decide who advances with FIFA kicks from the penalty mark 
 A coin toss may take the place of the shootout if agreed upon by both team coaches 
 
 Championship games Championship games ending in a tie will go to two 5-minute Overtime period with 1 minute between two overtime periods. Overtime will be Golden Goal, if a goal is scored then the game ends. If a goal is not 
 scored 
 then it will go to FIFA Kicks from the penalty mark to determine the winner. 
 
 FIFA Kicks from the penalty mark 
 Both teams will kick 5 times 
 The kicks will alternate between teams 
 If after both teams have taken 5 kicks the score remains equal additional kicks will be taken in same order until one team scores a goal more than the other team after the same number of kicks. 
 Only players on the field at end of the game may participate in the kicks from the penalty mark. 
 Each kick must be taken by a different player and all eligible players must take a kick before any player can take a second kick. 
 The penalty mark will be 12 yards from the goal line. 
 
 
 1 2 . Score Reporting Forfeited games will be reported as 2-0 in favor of the non-forfeited team. Sasquatch 5 A Side and all personnel are not responsible for expenses incurred for any team who did not play 3 matches due to forfeit. 
 
 The referee will report game scores at the end of each game. The referee will obtain initials of the team representative after the conclusion of the game. A team representative must review and sign the game cards PRIOR to referee submitting the game day card at the end of the game. In the case of discrepancy the game score reported prevails if both coaches and referee signed it. 1 3 . Field and Game Equipment 
 Players must wear shin guards in accordance with FIFA laws. No jewelry of any kind is allowed. All teams must be checked in prior to the first game. Formal uniforms and jerseys are not required. Teams must wear apparel that matches closely enough that referees and opponents can distinguish the members of each team. Numbers are not required on jerseys. Casts and braces must be padded and approved by the referee prior to each match. Usage of case or brace in any intentional manner is grounds for removal from the tournament. All teams must have alternate jerseys or pennies in case of color conflict. The team listed first on the schedule (home team) will wear white or light color jerseys. The visitor (away team) shall wear dark color jerseys. 
 Home 
 team is responsible for changing 
 jerseys if 
 there’s color conflict. Goalkeepers must be in jersey or vest of a different color than both team jersey color as well as referee shirt color. Players and coaches will take the same side of the field. Spectators will take the opposite side from players and coaches. Team may have up to 4 officials with 
 he 
 players. All team officials must display official coach card on a lanyard. Designated home team must provide 3 game balls. 
 
 1 3 . Substitutions 
 Substitutions are unlimited in all age and divisions during the game. Under no circumstances may substitutions take place after the game has ended in a tie and FIFA penalty kicks will be required to determine the winner 1 4 . No Show and Forfeits 
 All tournament games must be played at the time and place as scheduled. Teams will be provided 5-minute grace period after the scheduled kick-off time before the match is considered a forfeit. A minimum of 3 players is required to start a match. 
 Forfeited games shall be recorded as 2-0 (9 points) in favor of the team that did not forfeit. A team that forfeits will not be declared a flight winner or a wild card team. If a flight winner forfeits a game, the team with the next best record shall be named the flight winner. In addition, the team that forfeits will not be declared a 
 second place 
 team in the flight. The team with the next best record in the flight will be declared the 
 second place 
 team and play in the semi-final game. Any team forfeiting a championship game will not be entitled to individual trophies or team award. Failure to check in prior to team’s first scheduled game is grounds for a forfeit. Playing a red carded player in the game following the receipt of a red card is grounds for a forfeit. 1 6 . Inclement Weather 
 All tournament games must be played regardless of weather conditions. Only tournament director may cancel or postpone matches. Referees may only suspend a game. If there’s lightning in the area or if weather can cause risk to the participants and attendees of the games, play will be suspended. Players, coaches, referees and spectators must immediately move to vehicles or shelter upon suspension of the games, however, should not leave the area until games are declared complete. 
 
 Tournament 
 director will have the authority to: 
 
 Relocate or reschedule any games 
 Change the duration of the games 
 Cancel games 
 If the weather stoppage is longer than 30 minutes, every effort will be made to complete the games. If 
 first 
 half of the game has been 
 played 
 then the Tournament Director has the sole discretion to call the game complete. 
 If the game never started, every effort will be made to reschedule the game. 
 If the tournament director rules that during a preliminary round 
 penalty kicks 
 should be taken due to inclement weather or unplayable field conditions, the following rain rule will apply: 
 
 Each team will take 
 maximum 
 of 5 penalty kicks 
 At the end of 5 penalty kicks, the score will be recorded as 1-0 win for the team that has scored the most penalty kicks or 0-0 tie if both teams are tied in penalty kicks at the end of 5 kicks. 
 In the overall standings, 6 points will be awarded for the win, 3 points for a tie and 0 points for a loss. 
 There will be no refunds or reimbursement of tournament registration fees, hotels, car rentals or any other expenses incurred by the team for cancellation or forfeiture of the games. 
 
 1 7 . Conduct 
 
 Players and coaches must be on one side of the field with spectators on the opposite side. Only those with valid player and staff card and listed on the approved tournament roster may be on the team’s side of the field. Each team may have up to 4 registered officials. Coaches have total responsibility 
 of 
 the conduct of their players, families and spectators 
 at all times 
 . Absolutely no derogatory remarks or gestures will be tolerated. Players, coaches and spectators are expected to conduct themselves within the spirit of the Laws of the Game. Displays of temper or derogatory language are cause for ejection from the game and the surrounding field area. Repeated violation will result in suspension of the team from the tournament. If a referee abandons the game due to misconduct of a team, that team shall forfeit the game. If a referee abandons the game, the final score will remain as is at the time of abandonment. Players, coaches, team officials and spectators ejected from the game by the referee may not attend the next scheduled game. Players receiving 3 yellow card during the course of the tournament must sit out the next match Any players receiving a red card ejection must sit out the next match. A player receiving a second ejection will be prohibited from competing in additional tournament games. Artificial noise makers are not permitted. Smoking, vaping and chewing tobacco and alcoholic beverages are strictly prohibited on the tournament grounds. Pets/Animals are not permitted on the tournament grounds. Violation of the tournament rules may result in any of the following penalties: 
 
 Ineligibility of a player or team from tournament play 
 Forfeiture of a game(s) 
 Removal from the tournament grounds 
 Return of trophies or medals 
 Revocation of titles 
 Refunds will not be provided if a team withdraws after registration deadline. Refunds will not be provided if a team does not show up to the tournament. 
 
 The Tournament Director and/or Assistant Director have the final say in all matters. 
 